---
title: "Bonington and Steck in conversation at the RGS"
date: 2011-12-21
summary: "Ueli Steck gave us a delightful and equally fascinating talk about his own relationshipwith the North Wall. And it is indeed a relationship, since he had climbed it 38 times, including twice at…"
cover: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/5c1269967ee050f15cb2f037/5c4efc91fb3e2cb0488047cc_7694%20The%20Eiger%20North%20Face%20with%20moon.jpg"
---
Ueli Steck gave us a delightful and equally fascinating talk about his own relationshipwith the North Wall. And it is indeed a relationship, since he had climbed it 38 times, including twice at record speed. The second attempt still stands as the record: 2 hours, 47minutes and 33 seconds. The time was beaten in 2011, but using fixed ropes on the Hinterstoisser traverse, whereas Ueli climbed the route entirely without aid. He then went on to climb the Colton/Macintyre route on the Grandes Jorasses in record time and finally, the North Face of the Matterhorn. He came out with the understatement of the evening when he said: ‘vertical is not that steep.’ A good title for his autobiography perhaps. The Q&A brought the two climbers together in conversation and reminded the audience that their individual experiences spanned almost half a century of climbing on the great North Wall of the Eiger. A grand and historical event, a unique and fascinating evening and a reminder, if one is ever needed,of the relevance of collecting mountain heritage and how stories are a vital part of that. Our thanks for that evening go to the RGS, to Cordon Rouge who was a sponsor, to Doug Scott for holding an auction of signed prints and books that raised over £3,000 for MHT, to Julie Zitter for her help in organising the dinner and to all those who came and filled every seat in the lecture theatre.
