---
title: "Inspiring Adventure Antarctic Explorer and Lifetime Adventurer: Tom Price"
date: 2015-11-12
summary: "The South Georgia Heritage Trust Museum has loaned Tom’s sleeping bag and primus stove used on the expedition which have travelled 8,000 miles to appear in the exhibition. Tom Price was well known to…"
cover: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/5c1269967ee050f15cb2f037/5c4f1d3d11421203827d6389_Tom%20Price%20(2).jpg"
---
The South Georgia Heritage Trust Museum has loaned Tom’s sleeping bag and primus stove used on the expedition which have travelled 8,000 miles to appear in the exhibition. Tom Price was well known to the people of Threlkeld, with his peaked cap and wiry frame, living in a little old-fashioned cottage up Blease Road. He appeared on Keswick Market Place weekly in the 1980s, rounding up visiting fell-walkers for his Keswick Rambles. Butfrom the late 1930s onwards it was the climbing community in which Tom felt most athome. He began climbing before the war with Liverpool University Mountaineering Club and the very short-lived West Cumbria Climbing Club and went on to join Fell & RockClimbing Club on his return from service in the Navy in WWII. “Climbing, like sex, is fun to do but boring to discuss and the question of why people climb is more of interest to those that don’t than to those that do.” Tom continued climbing, all over the world, throughout his life, celebrating his 90th birthday on Glaramara! Tom was extremely influential in setting the terms of reference for outdoor education in the 1960s. He believed there were few better classrooms than the adventurous outdoor world and his approach was designed to spark enthusiasm and self-reliance. He was warden of the Eskdale Outward Bound School for 7 years, West Yorkshire Schools Inspector for outdoor education and Dean of Students at Bingley College. Wherever he went he inspired a new generation of climbers as students and tutors such as Pete Livesey and Jill Lawrence
